[New Product] Oracle Database (#2476)
captn3m0/endoflife.date: products/oracle-database.md

---

> title: Oracle

Reviewer: Oracle is the company name. I agree Oracle is often synonym to Oracle Database, but given endoflife.date is listing other Oracle products we should use "Oracle Database" here to not confuse the users.

category: db
iconSlug: oracle
permalink: /oracle-database

> versionCommand: show version

Reviewer: I do not know in which context this command is valid. Maybe `SELECT BANNER_FULL FROM V$VERSION;` (taken from https://database.guide/7-ways-to-check-your-oracle-version/) would be better ?

releasePolicyLink: https://www.oracle.com/us/assets/lifetime-support-technology-069183.pdf

> # changelogTemplate: "https://dev.mysql.com/doc/relnotes/mysql/__RELEASE_CYCLE__/en/news-{{'__LATEST__'|replace:'.','-'}}.html"

Reviewer: Release notes are complex (for example https://docs.oracle.com/cd/B19306_01/nav/portal_1.htm, https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/21/whats-new.html). This `changelogTemplate` comment must be removed.

releaseDateColumn: true
activeSupportColumn: Premier Support
eolColumn: Extended Support

> # Regex takes into account the first GA release in each cycle (in parentheses)

Reviewer: Relates to mysql, should be removed.

It seems Oracle publishes docker image on https://container-registry.oracle.com/, update may be automated from this (requires a new script in https://github.com/endoflife-date/release-data/).

# https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E17952_01/mysql-5.5-relnotes-en/index.html (5.5.8)
# https://dev.mysql.com/doc/relnotes/mysql/5.6/en/ (5.6.10)
# https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E17952_01/mysql-5.7-relnotes-en/ (5.7.9)
# https://dev.mysql.com/doc/relnotes/mysql/8.0/en/ (8.0.11)
# auto:
# -   git: https://github.com/mysql/mysql-server.git
#    regex: ^mysql-((?<c>5\.5)\.(?<v>([8-9]|\d{2}))|((?<c>5\.6)\.(?<v>\d{2}))|((?<c>5\.7)\.(?<v>([9]|\d{2})))|((?<c>8\.0)\.(?<v>(1[1-9]|[2-9]\d))))$
#    template: "{{c}}.{{v}}"

releases:

# https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/other-databases/essbase/21/essop/21.1.0.0.0-december-2020.html

> -   releaseCycle: "21c"

Reviewer: Link to release note should be added.

For example :
- Oracle 10g : https://docs.oracle.com/cd/B19306_01/nav/portal_1.htm
- Oracle 21c : https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/21/whats-new.html

-   releaseCycle: "19c"
    lts: true
    latest: "19.17.0.0.221018"
    support: 2027-04-30
    eol: false
    latestReleaseDate: 2023-01-13
    releaseDate: 2019-02-01

-   releaseCycle: "18c"
    lts: true
    latest: "19.17.0.0.221018"
    support: 2027-04-30
    eol: false
    latestReleaseDate: 2023-01-13
    releaseDate: 2019-02-01
  
-   releaseCycle: "12c"
    lts: false
    latest: "12.2.0.1.210720"
    support: 2017-03-01
    eol: false
    latestReleaseDate: 2022-04-01
    releaseDate: 2013-07-01
  
-   releaseCycle: "11g"
    lts: false
    latest: "11.2.0.4"
    support: 2015-01-01
    eol: true
    latestReleaseDate: 2022-09-13
    releaseDate: 2007-09-01
  
-   releaseCycle: "10g"
    lts: false
    latest: "10.2.0.5"
    support: 2010-07-01
    eol: true
    latestReleaseDate: 2005-07-01
    releaseDate: 2004-01-01
  
-   releaseCycle: "9i"
    lts: false
    latest: "9.2.0.8"
    support: 2007-07-01
    eol: true
    latestReleaseDate: 2007-04-01
    releaseDate: 2004-01-01

-   releaseCycle: "8i"
    lts: false
    latest: "8.1.7.4"
    support: 2004-12-01
    eol: true
    latestReleaseDate: 2008-08-01
    releaseDate: 1997-06-01
 
---

> 

Reviewer: Missing product description.

Reviewer: Product description is the first paragraph of the description, you must not add a title.

Moreover this description must be in a single quote block.

> ## Oracle Lifetime Support Policy

Reviewer: Support policy should be resumed, not copy/pasted from Oracle documentation.

    # https://web.archive.org/web/20180405025608/http://www.oracle.com/us/corporate/press/017324_EN
    releaseDate: 2005-07-11
    # https://web.archive.org/web/20190516170139/https://support.oracle.com/knowledge/Oracle%20Database%20Products/742060_1.html
    eol: 2010-07-31
    extendedSupport: 2015-07-31
    link: https://docs.oracle.com/cd/B19306_01/nav/portal_1.htm

-   releaseCycle: "10gR1"
    releaseCycle: "10g Release 1"
    lts: true
    # https://www.orafaq.com/wiki/2003
    releaseDate: 2003-09-08
    # https://www.orafaq.com/wiki/Oracle_10g
    eol: 2009-01-31
    extendedSupport: 2012-01-01
    link: https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/database10g-doc.html

---

> Oracle Database is a commercial relational database management system (RDBMS) developed by Oracle
> Corporation. It uses the Structured Query Language (SQL) for data manipulation and management, and
> it provides features such as robust security, transactional consistency, and high availability.

Oracle Database is a complex product distributed in various flavor (multiple cloud and on-premises
offers), with support for various operating systems (such as Linux, Oracle Solaris or Microsoft

> Windows), and with [various support stages](https://www.oracle.com/support/lifetime-support/software.html "Lifetime Support for Oracle software")

Reviewer: Mention https://support.oracle.com/knowledge/Oracle%20Cloud/161818_1.html. To access this document, an Oracle account with appropriate permissions is needed.

---
title: Oracle Database
category: db
iconSlug: oracle
permalink: /oracle-database
versionCommand: show version

> releasePolicyLink: https://www.oracle.com/us/assets/lifetime-support-technology-069183.pdf

Reviewer: HTML links should be favored, such as https://www.oracle.com/support/lifetime-support/software.html.

Author: > HTML links should be favored, such as https://www.oracle.com/support/lifetime-support/software.html.

:bulb: Could this lint be part of the CI :grey_question:

releaseDateColumn: true
activeSupportColumn: Premier Support
eolColumn: Extended Support

releases:

-   releaseCycle: "21c"
    lts: false
    latest: "21.4.2.0.0"
    support: 2024-04-30
    eol: false

>     latestReleaseDate: 2022-12-16

Reviewer: What were your source(s) for the dates ? I ask this so I can quickly validate. Do not hesitate to put, for each release, a link to the page that give the information.

Moreover, you should clarify what's being tracked here. According to https://support.oracle.com/knowledge/Oracle%20Database%20Products/742060_1.html there are _On-Premises Server Releases_ and _Oracle Public Cloud Releases_, and those releases have different release dates for the same major versions.

Author: https://github.com/endoflife-date/endoflife.date/issues/2127#issuecomment-1422069730

Author: https://github.com/endoflife-date/endoflife.date/issues/2127#issuecomment-1422070186

Author: - https://support.oracle.com/knowledge/Oracle%20Cloud/21202110_9.html
- https://support.oracle.com/knowledge/Oracle%20Cloud/2796590_1.html

Author: Also from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oracle_Database) : 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5235127/218881980-00c57cf0-5c01-4214-aa04-f68d051ba499.png)

Author: Also from[ Oracle Database 21c Release Update & Release Update Revision July 2022 Known Issues (Doc ID 21202207.9)](https://support.oracle.com/knowledge/Oracle%20Database%20Products/21202207_9.html)

    releaseDate: 2020-12-01
    link : "https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/21/whats-new.html" 

-   releaseCycle: "19c"
    lts: true
    latest: "19.17.0.0.221018"
    support: 2027-04-30
    eol: false
    latestReleaseDate: 2023-01-13
    releaseDate: 2019-02-01

>     link: "https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/19/rnrdm/database-release-notes.pdf"

Reviewer: HTML links, such as https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/19/rnrdm/index.html, should be favored IMHO.

-   releaseCycle: "18c"
    lts: true
    latest: "19.17.0.0.221018"
    support: 2027-04-30
    eol: false
    latestReleaseDate: 2023-01-13
    releaseDate: 2019-02-01

>     link: "https://support.oracle.com/knowledge/Oracle%20Cloud/18202104_9.html"

Reviewer: This is the changelog for Oracle Cloud. May be better to use https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/18/rnrdm/index.html ?

  
-   releaseCycle: "12c"
    lts: false
    latest: "12.2.0.1.210720"
    support: 2017-03-01
    eol: false
    latestReleaseDate: 2022-04-01
    releaseDate: 2013-07-01
    link: "https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/12.2/ladbn/index.html"
  
-   releaseCycle: "11g"
    lts: false
    latest: "11.2.0.4"
    support: 2015-01-01
    eol: true
    latestReleaseDate: 2022-09-13
    releaseDate: 2007-09-01

>     link: "https://support.oracle.com/knowledge/Oracle%20Cloud/2068368_1.html"

Reviewer: This is the changelog for Oracle Cloud, may be better to use https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E11882_01/relnotes.112/e23558/toc.htm ?

    support: 2007-07-01
    eol: true
    latestReleaseDate: 2007-04-01
    releaseDate: 2004-01-01
    link: "https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/oracle9i.html"

-   releaseCycle: "8i"
    lts: false
    latest: "8.1.7.4"
    support: 2004-12-01
    eol: true
    latestReleaseDate: 2008-08-01
    releaseDate: 1997-06-01
    link: "https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/oracle8i.html"
 
---

## Product description

> Oracle Database is a relational database management system (RDBMS) developed
> by Oracle Corporation.

> It is widely used in enterprise environments for managing large amounts of structured data,
>such as financial information, customer data, and inventory management.

> Oracle Database uses the Structured Query Language (SQL) for data manipulation and
> management, and it provides advanced features such as robust security, transactional
> consistency, and high availability. Additionally, Oracle Database offers a wide range
> of tools and technologies for data warehousing, business intelligence, and application 
> development, making it a versatile and powerful platform for businesses of all sizes.

## Oracle Lifetime Support Policy

> > The "Lifetime Support Policy" provides access to technical experts for as long as

Reviewer: Why using quote blocks for this paragraph (and the following) ?

> you license your Oracle products.
> It consists of three support stages: Premier Support, Extended Support, and Sustaining Support.

## Premier Support

> > Premier Support provides you with maintenance and support for your Oracle Database

Reviewer: A more neutral and concise style should be preferred. You should avoid sentences with "you" or "your".

Example for this paragraph :

> Premier Support provides maintenance and support for five years from the general availability date of a given release.

> products for five years from their general availability date
  
## Extended Support
  

> > Extended Support lets you stay competitive, with the freedom to upgrade on your

Reviewer: A more neutral style should be preferred (see comment above).

> timetable. If you take advantage of Extended Support, it provides you with
> an extra three years of support for specific Oracle releases for an additional fee.

## Sustaining Support
  

> > Sustaining Support puts you in control of your upgrade strategy. When Premier Support expires, if you choose

Reviewer: A more neutral style should be preferred (see comment above).

-   releaseCycle: "10gR1"
    releaseCycle: "10g Release 1"
    lts: true
    # https://www.orafaq.com/wiki/2003
    releaseDate: 2003-09-08
    # https://www.orafaq.com/wiki/Oracle_10g
    eol: 2009-01-31
    extendedSupport: 2012-01-01
    link: https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/database10g-doc.html

-   releaseCycle: "9iR2"
    releaseLabel: "9i Release 2"
    lts: true
    # https://www.orafaq.com/wiki/Oracle_9i
    releaseDate: 2002-05-01
    eol: 2007-07-31
    extendedSupport: 2010-07-31
    link: https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/oracle9i.html

-   releaseCycle: "9iR1"
    releaseCycle: "9i Release 1"
    lts: false
    # https://www.orafaq.com/wiki/Oracle_9i
    releaseDate: 2001-06-01
    eol: 2003-12-31
    extendedSupport: false
    link: https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/database10g-doc.html

---

> Oracle Database is a commercial relational database management system (RDBMS) developed by Oracle
> Corporation. It uses the Structured Query Language (SQL) for data manipulation and management, and
> it provides features such as robust security, transactional consistency, and high availability.

> Oracle Database is a complex product distributed in various flavor (multiple cloud and on-premises
> offers), with support for various operating systems (such as Linux, Oracle Solaris or Microsoft
> Windows), and with [various support stages](https://www.oracle.com/support/lifetime-support/software.html "Lifetime Support for Oracle software")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Oracle Database has [various support stages](https://www.oracle.com/support/lifetime-support/software.html "Lifetime Support for Oracle software")
```

(such as Premier, Extended, Sustaining or Custom Market Driven). Depending on these offers release

> dates may vary. This page is only documenting Premier and Extended support dates for Oracle Database
> On-Premises Server Releases for Linux x86-64.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dates may vary. This page documents Premier and Extended support dates for Oracle Database
On-Premises Server Releases for Linux x86-64.
```

According to the [Release Schedule of Current Database Releases](https://support.oracle.com/knowledge/Oracle%20Database%20Products/742060_1.html)
(february 13, 2023 update) there are two types of Oracle Database releases:

- Long Term Release (LTR), which are supported for 5 years with Premier Support, followed by 3 years
  with Extended Support. Note that Oracle Corporation may offer, for some LTR, one year of free
  Extended Support.
- Innovation Release, which are supported for at least 2 years with Premier Support and have no
  Extended Support.

> The version and patch policy is also complex and changing, but some interesting information can be

Reviewer 2: "interesting information" -> "guidance"

```suggestion
The version and patch policy is also complex and changing, but some guidance can be
```
